In the previous step we created an S2I Builder Image. Now we're going to use it to create a new image containing our simplified application. 

The "source code" is made up of files under the _src/_ directory.

The _src/_ directory contains the 'code' which the S2I Builder Image can use to create a new container with the application inside. 

The "cat runtime" will output the contents of any files inside a _src/_ directory.  That's all!! 

# Try this out

To try this out use the existing _src/_ directory containing the 'source code' files, hellofile and worldfile.  

Have a look at the files:

``find src``{{execute}} 

The output of this command should show:

```
src
src/hellofile
src/worldfile
```

As a developer, you might want to "test" your application "locally" before you build a fresh container!  To do this, simply run the "cat runtime" as follows:

``cat src/*``{{execute}}

The output of this command should show:

```
Hello
World
```

Now we are happy with the way the application is working, we can build our simple application container using one of the following ways.

# 1st way

Build using a build configuration that uploads the files from the current working directory and then launch the resulting image.

Create a build configuration called "simple1" using the builder image (s2i-simple-builder) we created in the previous step. 

``oc new-build s2i-simple-builder --binary=true --name simple1``{{execute}}

Kick off the S2I Build process by uploading the source code from the _src/_ directory.  A new image is created containing our applicaiton.

``oc start-build simple1 --from-dir=src --follow --wait``{{execute}}

Look at the output.  Can you see where the assemble script starts and ends and what it does?
It's creating a directory for the application and then copying in the source files:

```
+ mkdir -p /tmp/myapp
+ cp -Rf /tmp/src/hellofile /tmp/src/worldfile /tmp/myapp
```

This shows how the S2I build process works. First the source code is cloned and the assemble script is run. Then the running container is commited to create a new image and push it into the registry. 

Create an application from the newly created simple1 image.

``oc new-app simple1``{{execute}}

Wait for the pod to start.

``oc get pod``{{execute}}

Show the "simple application" is working by displaying its output (adjust the pod id):

``oc logs <simple1-pod-id>``

or use this command:

``oc logs $(oc get pods | grep ^simple1.*Running|awk '{print $1}'|tail -1)``{{execute}}

The contents of the hellofile and the worldfile should be displayed like this:

```
Launching the 'cat runtime'...
Starting application: cat /tmp/myapp/*
Hello
World
Well, that was exhausting! Sleeping...
```

# 2nd way

Build and launch the application with one command, using "oc new-app" and fetching the code from a git repository. 

The new-app command does everything in one go.  It creates the necessary build and deployment configurations in OpenShift, triggers the build which fetches the source code and then, after the new image has been pushed into the registry, deploys it automatically via the deployemnt configuration. 

``oc new-app s2i-simple-builder~https://github.com/sjbylo/intro-katacoda.git --context-dir=introduction/simple-s2i-builder/assets/src --name simple2``{{execute}}

View the S2I build log:

``oc logs bc/simple2 --follow``{{execute}}

Show the running pod:

``oc get pods``{{execute}}

Get the pod's ID and show the pod's output (adjust the pod id):

``oc logs <simple2-pod-id>``

or run the following command:

``oc logs $(oc get pods | grep ^simple2.*Running|awk '{print $1}'|tail -1)``{{execute}}

Again, as in the previous step, the output of the runing application is shown:

```
Launching the 'cat runtime'...
Starting application: cat /tmp/myapp/*
Hello
World
Well, that was exhausting! Sleeping...
```



